Previously the entire framework was contained in a single jar.
You needed to import the entire JUnit library just to run a single test.
With JUnit 5,
the framework has become more granular to allow you to import specific
pieces for what you would like to accomplish with your tests.
JUnit 5 is also more performant.
In previous versions, you could only run a single test runner.
Now you can run multiple test runners.
This will allow you to inherently have multithreaded
tests that will perform much faster.
JUnit 4 was also limited to Java 7 features.
These limitations were almost four years old.
JUnit 5 was upgraded to take advantage of Java 8 and later features,
thus eliminating a lot of the backwards compatibility baggage.
To be able to take advantage of these features,
JUnit was almost a complete rewrite of the entire API.
To still use the older features,
you can use the JUnit Vintage jar though for backwards compatibility.
Let's look at what some of the different naming
conventions are from JUnit 4 to 5.
Some of the annotations were changed to make them more
clear about what their functions are.
Before was changed to BeforeEach since it is ran before each individual test.
The same thing applies to After and AfterEach.
Those annotations are at the test level.
At the suite level, BeforeClass was changed to BeforeAll,
and AfterClass was changed to AfterAll.
And then finally, Ignore was changed to Disabled.
Disabled works at the suite level and at the individual test level. Let's look at how exceptions have changed.